# Chronon
Chronon is an opensoure project (written in Java) to facilitate the creation of custom text-based games, such as CYOA books, gamebooks or other kinds of interactive fiction books.

## Quick overview
Chronon relies on a concept of pages. A page is a text file with a .krpg (Chronon page) extension which contains the story text, along with some very simple scripts to tell the engine what to do when (you don't need to know any coding to use these, [see the manual]() for more info). For example, the player may be shown a certain passage from the page only if the player character passes a skillcheck, or if they have a certain item in their possession, and so on. Since these pages are text files, they can be manually read by the player, which may be undesirable. This is why, the author may choose to use [the "cipher" argument]() in the commandline. However, this is not foolproof because Chronon is opensource. This is meant more as a deterrent for potential cheaters because it would be more fun to just play the game than to decipher it manually. But of course, an author may also choose to modify the code to their liking for the purposes of keeping the story content hidden from manual viewing. Other than the page files, Chronon needs a player character, which is another text file, but with .krpc (Chronon player character) extension, which may (but does not have to) contain separate sections for identity, stats and inventory. All of these are optional, and may remain unused, depending on the kind of game the author wants to create. This again poses the problem that the player may choose to edit the .krpc file to suit their needs. This is something I have found no solution to so far, other than resorting to another cipher.

## Other information
### Quick backstory (for my first GitHub repository)
When I was in college, I started making a text adventure game called Zenerian Chronicles. There were tools to help with this, but since at that time I was not aware of any such tools which gave me complete control over the game mechanics, I decided to build the game from scratch using my very limited Java knowledge. As I was writing the code for what would basically be the engine for my game, I realised that to give myself some freedom in the future, I was making the engine entirely independent of the story I write. This meant that others could use my engine to turn their own stories into interactive text games. And thus, Chronon was born.
